21.Which of the following statements about hash-based index files is false?
a)!!Not recommended for equality selections
b)Does not support data retrieval based on other fields than exact search key
c)Cannot support range selections
d)Not recommended when the value of the search key is changed frequently

22.Which hashing method requires memory space only for storing data records (without any additional information)
Static hashing with open addressing

23.When blind write occurs?
When a transaction writes to an object without ever reading the object 

24.Which of the following approaches is not a method of indexing spatial data?
a)R-trees
b)Quad trees
c)“Space filling” curves techniques
d)!!Hash files

25.What is sequential flooding of the buffer pool?
Every scan of a file result in reading in the buffer every page of that file

26.RAID is the acronym for...
Redundant Array of Independent Disks

27.Which of the following best describes ‘seek time’ term?
The time taken to move the disk heads to the track on which a desired block is located.

28.Which of the following statements about dense-sparse indexes is false?
a)A dense index has at least one data entry for every search key which appears in the indexed file
b)A sparse index is typically much smaller than a dense index.
c)A sparse index is contains an entry for each page of records in a data file.
d)!!A dense index must be clustered.

29.Which of the following best characterizes a balanced tree?
For each node the difference between its sub-trees heights is 1, 0 or -1

30.Which of the following statements about tapes is false?
a)Tapes are sequential storing devices.
b)!!Tapes support direct access to a desired page
c)For accessing a page stored on tape we should step through all previous pages in order.
d)Tapes are used mainly for archiving old versions of databases.

31.Which of the following statements is not a real difference between disks and main memory?
a)Main memory is volatile; disks preserve data between two runs of the system.
b)On average, main memory accesses are faster than disk access.
c)The time to access a disk page depends on the location of data; the access to main memory is uniform.
d)!!Disks support direct access to any desired page; the access to main memory is sequential.
